the single most frequently asked
question I get about teaching English is
quote are the students well behaved
close quote and I get that so often
because it's not just people who are
addressed it in teach English that asked
me like my girlfriend's parents ask
people were just interested in my life
or life in China ask people who have
never been teachers themselves seem to
be toast in this question sometimes
they're asking because they have a
stereotyped notion that students in
China are really really well behaved and
sometimes it is the diametric opposite I
don't know if they get the idea from
watching like a particular movie or
something but sometimes they have the
idea that the students in China will be
really really poorly behaved right so
I'm doing university level teaching
she's teaching kids jump anytime you
want to jump in but yeah just this
morning I was talking to my friend so
she did a set called someone back in the
States and this friend that was one of
her I should explain that they're in
school so many hours a day that you know
it's understandable for them to for it
to be hard for me to hold their
attention right today even at the
university so my students are all 20 or
21 years old but let me tell you at 5:30
they were 5:30 p.m. they were really
rundown as opposed to 4:30 p.m.
yeah the students that I teach they I
just asked them a couple days ago when
they get out of school and they said
they get out of school at 10 p.m. and
they must have time to do
extracurricular stuff because they come
to this after-school program that if
that is basically including the
extracurricular stuff that's on campus
so some of them are doing volleyball and
some of them are doing English practice
club or whatever until 10 p.m.
yeah yeah they're including it all on
campus activities but if some of them
want to tell me yeah it's true that we
just came home from getting some food or
something
last Sunday night it was around 10:00
p.m. and you have students we're leaving
the campus and some of them are doing
dance practice and like it's not
optional they have to practice doing a
dance for the annual school ethnic
minorities festival yeah there's a lot
of stuff but I'm just saying that's
school in the broadest sense of the word
school that they're staying on campus
until 10:00 p.m.
yeah still not great and not great for
the quality of behavior and attend
you're gonna get your students if
they're that rundown whether your
students are eight years old or are 21
years old so notice they want to answer
in two categories here are the students
well behaved my concern when coming here
was well okay I already had a lot of
experience living in Asia and teaching
in Asia and living in China my concern
was actually not about their in
classroom behavior this might surprise
you a little bit when I was applying for
this job I actually asked about the bus
that I would take to and from work
because I at a campus like most
university campuses so it's a ways out
of town and I asked do I have to take
the same bus as the other students I was
really imagining that some of the
students might you know I hope he just
says with my class it might be a bit
rowdy or rude or confrontational you
know that being on the bus like a
student with the other students might
actually be a bit sketchy you know and I
was young once I can imagine myself in
the students position so in terms of the
students behavior outside of the
classroom context when you meet them
walking around downtown when you meet
them on the bus when you meet them at a
restaurant or what have you which does
happen all the time their behavior is
exemplary I'd say in that context the
behavior is much better than students in
North America and much I would say
better than any other part of Asia I
know of so that was a pleasant surprise
but I remember I asked one of the other
professors that I said well am I
actually gonna be taking the bus with
the other students and he actually
recognized the problem he and he said no
he said don't worry there's a special
bus that's for teacher professors only
what everyone say so you know probably
he knew right away what I was talking
about like oh yeah maybe being a you
know like literally you know sitting
next to the other student more
experienced in other Asian countries
obviously this is the first time I have
taught and so I had I hadn't really
thought about it but it's true that when
I see students you know outside of
school they're happy to see you yeah
right and if they talk to you it's not
inappropriate or you know you know I've
sometimes students ask me questions
about English grammar or something when
the puppets you know what one did today
you know how you know but little kids
especially they seem really excited to
but anyway yes yeah well the
okay well again we're talking about a
huge age Ridge here aged eight page 21
basically here between two of us um so
but no your students are also excited
when they see I just remember like oh
yeah yeah that way so that's cool
now you know in terms the other side of
the classroom think the other thing is
who I am and how am I carry myself I
don't get drunk I don't get drunk with
my students I don't drink any alcohol at
all and that does change other perceive
me China is in many ways a very Pro
drinking culture almost all
socialization is done through alcohol
and there really is a sense in which I
could say I have no Chinese friends
because I don't eat meat and I don't
drink alcohol however it probably does
make me seem much more upright and
respectable in my students eyes from day
one and I think I am treated better for
that reason there are a lot of white
foreign professors who drink alcohol
with their students drink alcohol or
drink alcohol and mix company of
students professors or just get drunk
somewhere downtown where the students
see them and talk about them you know
where the students gospel you know the
professor was at the disco last week and
a couple of students are there on saw
him getting drunk and dancing or
whatever and a lot of professors sleep
with their students at this point in
2017 to 2018 comes up I mean I warned my
students about it and I talked to other
professors about it and I've met and
talked to tons of professors
face-to-face professor some conveying
professor some Beijing festers Mother
locales who themselves do it or who know
they're surrounded by the professors do
it so there are a lot of things like
that that would obviously change the
dynamics that's at the classroom you
want you bet oh sorry you just you put
you put our hand to my knees I love that
all right so you know that is part of it
how we are perceived to some extent it's
gonna reflect the rules you choose to
play by and in a world where you can
earn more money being a waiter or a
waitress back in the United States where
you can earn more money working at
Starbucks in Canada then you can being
an English teacher in China you're
surrounded by people who are here for
reasons other than money you might think
that money is a tremendously impure
motive in this muffin in this life but
there are other there are other motives
I don't think ever told you but you know
my other teacher my Chinese teacher in
couldn't man
she knew an extraordinary example of
that she told me about a guy who was
over 60 years old some of the foreigners
come here to teach English in their 60s
and their retirement years and his thing
was deflowering virgins here in China
and he had a stack of photographs you
know he kept you know obviously in his
cellphone or whatever but he was very
proud of him he obviously saw this as
his life's work he wasn't just you know
seducing younger women he was
specifically into deflowering virgins
and he deflowered a remarkable number of
them and my teacher told me of this
partly because she you know she knew
this guy as a fellow poor fellow member
of the teaching profession whatever want
to say but she she really tried to talk
to and counsel one of his girlfriends
one of his girlfriends who fell in love
with him and she was just exploit look
this guy every year he just sleeps with
more students name a bunch of students
come in he's like you know you got to
realize you're gonna be discarded and
the girl really believes no I'm
different I can change him I'm not like
the other girls sad situation so you
know in case you think nobody gets hurt
or nobody gets their heart broken
sure they do it yeah that's that's not a
shrinking side of teaching ESL in China
and it's very much a growing side partly
due to the economic and bureaucratic
factors I talked about in a video prior
to this one that'll be in the same
playlist the teaching notion China
playlist so I realized for a lot of you
you didn't think this video was gonna go
in that direction I think it really is
necessary going that I shouldn't talk
about that stuff openly now in terms of
behavior in the classroom it's pretty
bad it's pretty bad I don't know where
this stereotype comes from that that I
Chinese students are meek yeah my friend
was really surprised when I told her
that the students that I judge are often
too loud for me that I can I can't even
hear myself talk I mean I'm not I don't
have a loud speaking voice but still
like I am projecting as much as possible
sometimes the students are just so rowdy
and so if I were to generalize like if
you think of the students as like the
the best students the highest level of
ability and the weakest students and
then those in the middle all three
groups are badly behaved yeah so like
it's not the case that only the bad
students behave badly
you have students who are excellent who
are very advanced in English or they're
good at studying they're good at
classroom participation they're good at
speaking class whatever you want to say
they're good at being students but
they're still badly behaved no you know
it would be hard for me to say that
their behavior is really worse than
Canadian University students where I've
just been in Canada the behavior was was
really really bad but you know in Europe
or in the Western world
you can definitely be in an environment
where the students really feels they're
do just sit and look at the professor
silently to at least keep the outward
appearance of paying attention even if
they are sitting there or you know
fantasizing about what kind of car
they're gonna buy like their mind is
wandering they're daydreaming or
whatever it is you know where what's
going on in fact paying attention but
they they are at least keeping up the
outward posture of a student playing
attention I would say here it's really
the exact opposite even the best
students you know even whatever your top
third or top quintile of students they
will very openly not pay attention not
participate what have you and today I
picked out just two students as examples
in two I taught about four classes with
two two groups of students to cool two
cohorts of students and in each class I
picked out one student two to point this
out because we were talking with the
issue of classroom discipline and eating
it's probably part of practicing I was
just an English lesson and you know one
of them I went over to her I just I just
picked up her phone and held it up for
the class they could all see she was
playing a massively multiplayer online
game she was playing a video game on her
phone and I said look so this is an
example I mean I can choose to be a mean
teacher I can choose the Punisher or I
can choose to say you're not allowed to
use your cell phone again or something
or I can say look it's your choice like
this is an opportunity for you in your
whole life have you ever had a foreigner
teach you English no so this is your one
opportunity and you're blowing it you
know like if you want you can at least
pay attention you can talk you can you
know said after you leave you're like
next year you know you're never gonna be
able to afford sorry - my students are
poor I mean you know it maybe I've had
rich students in the past I've lived in
have lived in many different parts of
Asia but currently my students are
generally poor people they're never
going to be able to afford to employ a
you know a white Western English teacher
for one-on-one tutoring or something
this is the one opportunity and they're
blowing it so I did that a totally nice
way and she didn't get defensive and the
class didn't get hostile and I wasn't
quite I didn't kick her out of the class
you know we just talked about it well
look this is what's happening in the
class I can choose to force you not to
use a cell phone have you uh but yeah
regardless of their level of ability and
regardless of their level of motivation
because me the other student I spoke to
she's very highly motivated and she
smiled to me she was actually kind of
delighted she liked getting the
attention when I did the same thing to I
went over and I picked up her cell phone
this is a different class different
group of students I said you know and I
said to her last year you were one of my
best students and this year you're you
know you're just playing on your cell
phone all day in class and at the end of
glad she was smiling and affable about
it she was nice but she agreed you know
she knew it was true at the end of class
she came up but you want to prove to me
even though she was using her cell phone
she was using it for research linked to
the content of the course that she was
doing schoolwork she wasn't just playing
the video game so somewhat different but
nevertheless okay so she's one of the
most highly motivated students but her
classroom behavior is disruptive and bad
and not participatory and and not even
feigning the outward appearance of
paying attention in class or just a lot
of what goes on in in the Western world
is pretending to pay attention when you
don't yeah I don't know where the
stereotype comes from either that I know
I think I think the other thing to
remember is and this is totally Evert
able this is just a management level
decision in schools we are treated as
not real teachers and English is treated
as not a real subject sure her boss is a
wonderful person don't get me wrong but
you know the students in your class they
don't behave at all the way they do at
their own school for a real teacher in a
real you see no different that is yeah
when they actually are in class they're
quiet so right you know it is different
they're they're at an after-school
program they don't consider it a real
education although in many ways it's a
much more extraordinary opportunity they
ought to take advantage of their care
then there are the usual classes no
offense you know but just to give an
example every semester at the University
of the university level teaching my
exams are not scheduled during the exam
period why what you know why are my
exams not real exams why do I do my
exams in my classroom as part of my
class schedule and not part these have
to because it's not a real class I'm
paid more than my own boss they pay my
airplane ticket to fly you're from
Canada it's a lot of money if anything
they should take it more seriously they
you know the institution and the
students should regard my classes more
important than a default class but they
don't so this is in terms the behavior
of the other professor is the attitude
of the institution there there really is
kind of an attitude like my class is
sort of the cherry on top of theirs like
oh look we paid a foreigner to entertain
you and not like hey guys like this is
your one shot to learn how to pronounce
what is it my favorite examples the
words society basically none of my
students can pronounce the word society
and the end of my year teaching here I
think still none of them will be able to
pronounce the word society and you know
today you know not that stops okay
society lets you know let's try together
because they use the word a lot you know
talk about social issues a lot in class
yeah so look that's it guys um you know
III don't know there are teachers who
clown around more than I do there are
teachers who try to be more entertaining
to the class that I do I think they
probably have a worse experience you
just saw the new teacher here who's a
Russian guy you saw him trying to clear
out with the students I don't think
planning what the students gets you more
compliance or more respect or better
behavior if anything it's worse I think
probably my more scholarly approach
probably I get the best behavior out of
my students possible in that sense and I
like currently you know this wasn't the
case in the first couple of months of
teaching but right now my students
respect me and they respect the
curriculum I'm presenting they really
get the fact that I'm not just teaching
them random
crap I'm not just teaching them
something because the textbook tells me
to that I really am putting together
something that that matters whether or
not they choose to learn it it's up to
them whether or not they put in the time
to really to really get it and that kind
of respect is earned it's earned for
everyone but probably if you're more of
an informal and clowning teacher it
probably takes you more time during that
respect I would say even when you have
that respect and even when you have
university level students you still will
not get good classroom behavior in
mainland China in 2017 and I think
that's true age eight age 21
it's not gonna happen it's not just that
they play video games in class I think
they have the fundamental attitude that
this is not a real class this is
something more like a video game